---
layout: post
title:  "2021 Update"
date:   2021-01-18 17:00:00
comments: true
categories: perso
---

I just realised I hadn't updated my blog in over 5 years :O So here's a
quick recap of the past 5 years in a few paragraphs.

I wrote a "read-only wallet" for Bitcoin that was designed to be used
for Bitcoin using charities to be totally transparent about their
finances. In the process, I essentially wrote a full Bitcoin node from
scratch in Node.js which used Postgres as a data store.

The project didn't gain much traction but it lead to me joining Blockai
(a startup that was using the Bitcoin blockchain to register and
digitize copyrights. The startup pivoted multiple times and was
re-branded to Binded.com. We eventually got acquired by
[Pixsy.com](http://pixsy.com/).

During my time as CTO and co-founder of Binded, I got to manage a small
team of engineers. I also did a lot of deep learning, which I had to
learn on the job: I completed Stanford's Machine Learning course as well
as the Deep Learning specialisation on Coursera by Andrew Ng, which I
highly recommend. I also learned a lot about information retrieval
systems and DevOps (Kubernetes, Docker, CI/CD, infrastructure as code,
etc.).

Since Binded's acquisition in 2019, I did a lot of open source
development (e.g. [added a new crypto API to
Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/34600)), learned Rust and
learned a lot about Ethereum, DeFi and finance. I also had a few
successful investments. I am currently working on a new project related
to algorithmic trading, DeFi and cryptocurrency.
