---
layout: post
title:  "2021 Update"
date:   2021-01-18 17:00:00
comments: true
categories: perso
---

I was quite busy in recent years and kind of abandoned my blog so I
thought I would do a very condensed summary of what I've been up to in
these past few years.

I got quite involved with Bitcoin. I developed a web based, "read-only"
Bitcoin wallet which was called "ColdMonitor". The intended market was
primarily charities and organisations who wanted to be transparent about
their finances. In the process, I essentially developed a full Bitcoin
node from scratch in Node.js using Postgres as a data store. I had to
learn a lot about [Bitcoin's inner
workings](https://github.com/olalonde/bitcoin-notes). I also [pioneered
the "proof of
liabilities"](https://github.com/olalonde/proof-of-liabilities)
cryptographic scheme that some exchanges eventually adopted. This was
around the time of the MtGox disaster when multiple people started
questioning the solvability of Bitcoin exchanges.

The ColdMonitor project didn't gain as much traction as I had hoped but
it did lead to me joining Blockai, a startup that was using the Bitcoin
blockchain to register and timestamp copyrights (using the `OP_RETURN`
opcode). The startup pivoted multiple times and was re-branded to
Binded.com. We eventually got acquired by
[Pixsy.com](https://www.pixsy.com/binded/).

During my time as CTO and co-founder of Binded, I got to manage a small
team of engineers. I did a lot of full stack development with
React/Node.js. I also learned a lot about deep learning, computer vision
and information retrieval (we built a reverse image search engine for
the web). I had to learn a lot of that on the spot which lead me to
completing Stanford's Machine Learning course as well as the Deep
Learning specialisation on Coursera by Andrew Ng (I highly recommend
both). Since we were a small team, I was also responsible for operations
so I got to do a lot of DevOps stuff (Kubernetes, Docker, CI/CD
pipeline, Terraform, etc.).

Following Binded's acquisition in 2019, I did some open source
development (e.g. [added a new crypto API to
Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/34600)), some consulting,
learned Rust, etc. I also got quite lucky with a few investments. I am
currently working on a new project at which touches on algorithmic
trading, DeFi and cryptocurrency.
